---
layout: post
title: "001 / The Olive Tree"
description: "The very first post about the reason, purpose and plans for the Olive Tree."
date: 2018-06-24
comments: false
---

Let's be honest, the world we live in is a fantastic and awful place at the same time. Majority of people have freedom of speech, movement and belief. We have food (so much that lots of it goes to waste), we have roofs over our heads. But do we ever stop for a minute to think, look at our lives from a distance and ask questions - does it really matter? All I do, have or say - . Many of us run from such questions as they tend to crush the walls we have built

In my case it came unexpectedly as a thunder from the sky. Until that moment I thought I got all figured out - I have grown up in a catholic family, finished education, flew out of the nest pretty early, got a great job, got married and had fantastic perspectives for a decent, carefree life. I practically obeyed all the rules of the catholic church but my actual relation with Christ was close to none. Parents of my lovely wife are orthodox catholics. From the very start of our relationship in high school they used to watch and rebuke us on many different occasions. They have been constantly keeping an eye on us not to stray from their version of Lord's path.

That was an actual impulse for reaching out to the source. And once I did this I realized three things:

1. I've been lied to my entire life.
2. Recipe for a real, valuable life lies in your home, on your bookshelf.
3. It won't be that easy :).

---

Even though Christ teachings, salvation and eternal life are pretty serious topics I personally have an allergy for speaking about anything with too much solemnity. My purpose is to encourage as many people as I can to grab their bibles, read the scripture and simply decide with their own, independent minds whether what is taught in it makes sense in terms of making the world a better place to live. This is what I did and it was the best idea I could ever got.

But what about contents of the blog?

1. Bible is simple yet it describes situations that happened long time ago when the world was a completely different place tat it is today. I'll try to explain how I see various topics described by the Bible in more contemporary context. I still **advice reading it and trying to figure things out on your own** but I'll try to provide some entry points and my way of thinking.
2. As I used to be a roman catholic I will try to point out what is wrong with dogmas that poisoned this particular fraction of Christians throughout the centuries.
3. I'll also share some resources loosely related to God and Christianity but being a great "food for thougts".

I am not deceiving myself that these posts will reach many people. But if they somehow cause even one person to get closer to God, my job is done and I will be very, very happy.

**God bless**<br>
*Christopher*